plugins/babysitter/skills/babysitter/reference/HOOKS.md, before:

# Babysitter Hook System

**Version:** 2.1 (Runtime Integration)
**Date:** 2026-01-19

> **✨ New in v2.1:** Lifecycle hooks are now **automatically triggered** by the SDK runtime at key lifecycle points (createRun, orchestrateIteration, task execution). No manual hook calls needed in process files for SDK lifecycle events.
>
> **New in v2.0:** The hook system has been generalized to support **12 hook types** across the orchestration lifecycle, plus SDK integration for calling hooks directly from process files via `ctx.hook()`. See [HOOK_SYSTEM_V2_SUMMARY.md](./HOOK_SYSTEM_V2_SUMMARY.md) for complete v2.0 details.

## Overview

The babysitter plugin uses a **generalized hook-based architecture** to allow extensibility at key points in the orchestration lifecycle. Hooks are shell scripts that receive event data via stdin and can execute custom logic in response.

**Key Features:**
- ✅ Generic hook dispatcher supporting any hook type
- ✅ SDK integration - `ctx.hook()` callable from `main.js`
- ✅ 12 lifecycle hook types (8 SDK + 4 process-level)
- ✅ Backwards compatible with v1.0 hooks
- ✅ TypeScript support with full type definitions

## Supported Hook Types

### SDK Lifecycle Hooks (Automatic)

Triggered automatically by the SDK runtime:

- **`on-run-start`** - Run created, before first step
- **`on-run-complete`** - Run finished successfully
- **`on-run-fail`** - Run failed with error
- **`on-task-start`** - Task begins execution
- **`on-task-complete`** - Task completes (success/error)
- **`on-step-dispatch`** - After each orchestration step
- **`on-iteration-start`** - Start of orchestration iteration
- **`on-iteration-end`** - End of orchestration iteration

### Process-Level Hooks (Manual)

Called explicitly from process files via `ctx.hook()`:

- **`on-breakpoint`** - User approval/input required
- **`pre-commit`** - Before committing changes
- **`pre-branch`** - Before creating branch
- **`post-planning`** - After planning phase complete
- **`on-score`** - Scoring/evaluation step

### on-breakpoint (Original)

Triggered when a breakpoint is reached during orchestration. Allows custom handling of breakpoint events.

**Default behavior:** Uses `breakpoint-cli.sh` to create breakpoint via breakpoints CLI and wait for release.

**Use cases:**
- Send notifications (Slack, email, SMS)
- Log breakpoint events
- Trigger custom approval workflows
- Integrate with external systems
- Custom UI/UX for breakpoints

## Hook Discovery

Hooks are discovered and executed in priority order:

1. **Per-repo hooks** - `.a5c/hooks/<hook-name>/`
   - Highest priority
   - Project-specific behavior
   - Committed to repository

2. **Per-user hooks** - `~/.config/babysitter/hooks/<hook-name>/`
   - User-specific preferences
   - Not in repository
   - Personal customizations

3. **Plugin hooks** - `plugins/babysitter/hooks/<hook-name>/`
   - Default implementations
   - Lowest priority
   - Shipped with plugin

Within each location, hooks are executed in alphabetical order by filename.

## Calling Hooks

### From Process Files (main.js)

The ProcessContext provides a `ctx.hook()` method for calling hooks directly:

```javascript
import { defineTask } from "@a5c-ai/babysitter-sdk";

export async function myProcess(inputs, ctx) {
  // Call pre-commit hooks before committing
  const commitResult = await ctx.hook("pre-commit", {
    files: ["src/feature.ts", "src/feature.test.ts"],
    message: "feat: add new feature",
    author: "Claude",
  });

  if (!commitResult.success) {
    throw new Error("Pre-commit hooks failed");
  }

  // Call scoring hooks
  const scoreResult = await ctx.hook("on-score", {
    target: "code-quality",
    score: 85,
    metrics: {
      coverage: 92,
      complexity: 8,
    },
  });

  // Check if any hook failed
  const failedHooks = scoreResult.executedHooks.filter(h => h.status === "failed");
  if (failedHooks.length > 0) {
    ctx.log(`Warning: ${failedHooks.length} hooks failed`);
  }

  return { ok: true };
}
```

### From Shell Scripts

Use the generic dispatcher:

```bash
# Call any hook type
echo '{"runId":"run-123","status":"completed","duration":5000}' | \
  plugins/babysitter/hooks/hook-dispatcher.sh on-run-complete

# Call on-breakpoint
cat breakpoint-payload.json | \
  plugins/babysitter/hooks/hook-dispatcher.sh on-breakpoint

# Backwards compatible - old dispatcher still works
cat breakpoint-payload.json | \
  plugins/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint-dispatcher.sh
```

### From SDK Runtime (Automatic)

**✨ New:** As of v2.1, SDK lifecycle hooks are **automatically triggered** by the runtime at key lifecycle points. No manual invocation needed.

#### Integration Points

The SDK runtime automatically calls hooks at the following points:

**In `createRun()` (packages/sdk/src/runtime/createRun.ts):**
- `on-run-start` - Called after `RUN_CREATED` event is written
- Payload: `{ runId, processId, entry, inputs, timestamp }`

**In `orchestrateIteration()` (packages/sdk/src/runtime/orchestrateIteration.ts):**
- `on-iteration-start` - Called at start of each iteration
- `on-run-complete` - Called after `RUN_COMPLETED` event
- `on-run-fail` - Called after `RUN_FAILED` event
- `on-iteration-end` - Called in finally block at end of iteration
- Payloads include: `{ runId, status, output/error, duration, timestamp }`

**In task execution (packages/sdk/src/cli/nodeTaskRunner.ts):**
- `on-task-start` - Called before task execution begins
- `on-task-complete` - Called after task execution finishes
- Payloads include: `{ runId, effectId, taskId, status, duration, timestamp }`

#### Error Handling

Hook failures are handled gracefully:
- Wrapped in try-catch by `callRuntimeHook()` helper
- Failures are logged but **do not break orchestration**
- All hooks continue to execute even if one fails
- This ensures robustness - custom hooks can't crash runs

#### How It Works

The SDK runtime uses `callRuntimeHook()` from `packages/sdk/src/runtime/hooks/runtime.ts`:

```typescript
import { callRuntimeHook } from "./hooks/runtime";

// Example: In createRun()
await callRuntimeHook(
  "on-run-start",
  { runId, processId, entry, inputs },
  { cwd: runDir, logger }
);
```

This function:
1. Ensures the payload has a timestamp
2. Calls the generic hook dispatcher
3. Catches any errors and logs them
4. Returns a result without throwing (even on failure)

No code changes needed to enable these hooks - they work automatically once the SDK is integrated.

## Hook Contract

### Input

Hooks receive a JSON payload via stdin. The structure depends on the hook type.

**For on-breakpoint hooks:**
```json
{
  "question": "Approve this change?",
  "title": "Review Required",
  "runId": "run-20260119-example",
  "reason": "Critical issues found",
  "context": {
    "runId": "run-20260119-example",
    "files": [
      {
        "path": ".a5c/runs/run-20260119-example/artifacts/process.md",
        "format": "markdown"
      },
      {
        "path": ".a5c/runs/run-20260119-example/inputs.json",
        "format": "code",
        "language": "json"
      }
    ]
  },
  "summary": {
    "totalIssues": 6,
    "critical": 0,
    "high": 1
  }
}
```

### Output

Hooks can output to:
- **stdout**: Data that should be captured (e.g., breakpoint results)
- **stderr**: Logging/debugging information (visible to user)

### Exit Codes

- `0`: Success - hook executed successfully
- `non-zero`: Failure - logged but doesn't stop other hooks

**Important**: Hook failures don't stop the dispatcher. All hooks are attempted.

### Environment Variables

Hooks have access to:
- `BREAKPOINT_PAYLOAD`: The full JSON payload (also on stdin)
- `CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT`: Plugin installation directory
- `REPO_ROOT`: Repository root (if set)
- `CLAUDE_SESSION_ID`: Current Claude session ID
- Standard environment variables

## Writing a Hook

### Basic Template

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# My Custom Hook
# Description of what this hook does

set -euo pipefail

# Read payload from stdin
PAYLOAD=$(cat)

# Extract fields using jq
QUESTION=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.question // "N/A"')
RUN_ID=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.runId // "unknown"')

# Do your custom logic here
echo "[my-hook] Processing breakpoint for run: $RUN_ID" >&2

# Example: Send notification
# curl -X POST https://api.example.com/notify \
#   -d "{\"message\": \"Breakpoint: $QUESTION\"}"

# Output any results to stdout (optional)
echo '{"status": "notified"}'

exit 0
```

### Installation

**Per-repo hook (recommended for team workflows):**
```bash
# Create hook directory
mkdir -p .a5c/hooks/on-breakpoint

# Create your hook
cat > .a5c/hooks/on-breakpoint/my-hook.sh <<'EOF'
#!/bin/bash
# Your hook code here
EOF

# Make executable
chmod +x .a5c/hooks/on-breakpoint/my-hook.sh

# Commit to repo
git add .a5c/hooks/on-breakpoint/my-hook.sh
git commit -m "Add custom breakpoint hook"
```

**Per-user hook (personal preferences):**
```bash
# Create hook directory
mkdir -p ~/.config/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint

# Create your hook
cat > ~/.config/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint/my-hook.sh <<'EOF'
#!/bin/bash
# Your hook code here
EOF

# Make executable
chmod +x ~/.config/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint/my-hook.sh
```

## Example Hooks

### Slack Notification

```bash
#!/bin/bash
set -euo pipefail

PAYLOAD=$(cat)
QUESTION=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.question')
RUN_ID=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.runId // "unknown"')

SLACK_WEBHOOK="${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL:-}"

if [[ -n "$SLACK_WEBHOOK" ]]; then
  curl -X POST "$SLACK_WEBHOOK" \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d "{
      \"text\": \"🛑 Breakpoint in run \`$RUN_ID\`\",
      \"blocks\": [{
        \"type\": \"section\",
        \"text\": {
          \"type\": \"mrkdwn\",
          \"text\": \"*Question:* $QUESTION\"
        }
      }]
    }" > /dev/null 2>&1

  echo "[slack] Notification sent" >&2
fi

exit 0
```

### Email Notification

```bash
#!/bin/bash
set -euo pipefail

PAYLOAD=$(cat)
QUESTION=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.question')
RUN_ID=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.runId // "unknown"')
REASON=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.reason // "N/A"')

EMAIL="${BREAKPOINT_EMAIL:-your-email@example.com}"

{
  echo "Subject: Breakpoint in run $RUN_ID"
  echo ""
  echo "A breakpoint has been reached:"
  echo ""
  echo "Run ID: $RUN_ID"
  echo "Reason: $REASON"
  echo "Question: $QUESTION"
  echo ""
  echo "Full payload:"
  echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq '.'
} | sendmail "$EMAIL"

echo "[email] Notification sent to $EMAIL" >&2

exit 0
```

### Metrics/Telemetry

```bash
#!/bin/bash
set -euo pipefail

PAYLOAD=$(cat)
TIMESTAMP=$(date -u +"%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ")
RUN_ID=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.runId // "unknown"')

# Send to metrics system
curl -X POST https://metrics.example.com/api/events \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d "{
    \"event\": \"breakpoint\",
    \"timestamp\": \"$TIMESTAMP\",
    \"runId\": \"$RUN_ID\",
    \"payload\": $PAYLOAD
  }" > /dev/null 2>&1

echo "[metrics] Event logged" >&2

exit 0
```

## Testing Hooks

### Manual Testing

Test the dispatcher with a sample payload:

```bash
# Create test payload
cat > /tmp/test-breakpoint.json <<'EOF'
{
  "question": "Test breakpoint?",
  "runId": "test-123",
  "context": {
    "runId": "test-123"
  }
}
EOF

# Run dispatcher
cat /tmp/test-breakpoint.json | \
  plugins/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint-dispatcher.sh
```

### Testing Individual Hooks

```bash
# Test your hook directly
cat /tmp/test-breakpoint.json | \
  .a5c/hooks/on-breakpoint/my-hook.sh
```

### Debugging

Enable verbose output:

```bash
# Set environment variable for debugging
export BREAKPOINT_DEBUG=1

# Run dispatcher - will show detailed execution
cat /tmp/test-breakpoint.json | \
  plugins/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint-dispatcher.sh
```

## Best Practices

### Do's ✅

- **Make hooks idempotent** - safe to run multiple times
- **Use meaningful filenames** - `slack-notify.sh`, not `hook1.sh`
- **Log to stderr** - helps with debugging
- **Handle missing data** - use `jq -r '.field // "default"'`
- **Exit gracefully** - always return 0 for non-critical failures
- **Document your hooks** - add comments explaining purpose
- **Test thoroughly** - test with various payloads

### Don'ts ❌

- **Don't block indefinitely** - use timeouts for external calls
- **Don't fail dispatcher** - return 0 unless critically broken
- **Don't modify payload** - hooks are read-only observers
- **Don't hardcode secrets** - use environment variables
- **Don't rely on hook order** - within a directory, order is alphabetical but should be treated as concurrent
- **Don't output sensitive data** - especially to logs

## Hook Architecture

### Dispatcher Flow

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  on-breakpoint-dispatcher.sh                    │
│                                                  │
│  1. Read payload from stdin                     │
│  2. Execute per-repo hooks (.a5c/hooks/)        │
│     └─ Run all *.sh files in alphabetical order │
│  3. Execute per-user hooks (~/.config/)         │
│     └─ Run all *.sh files in alphabetical order │
│  4. Execute plugin hooks (plugins/*/hooks/)     │
│     └─ Run all *.sh files in alphabetical order │
│  5. Aggregate results and exit                  │
│                                                  │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Hook Execution

Each hook:
1. Receives full payload via stdin
2. Can access payload via `$BREAKPOINT_PAYLOAD` environment variable
3. Executes independently (failures don't affect other hooks)
4. Can output results to stdout (captured)
5. Can log to stderr (visible to user)
6. Returns exit code (0 = success, non-zero = failure)

### Default Hook (breakpoint-cli.sh)

The default `breakpoint-cli.sh` hook:
- Creates breakpoint using `breakpoints` CLI
- Waits for release with polling
- Returns feedback data
- This is the previous behavior, now as a pluggable hook

## Future Hook Types

The following hooks are planned for future implementation:

- `on-run-start` - When a run is created
- `on-run-complete` - When a run completes successfully
- `on-run-fail` - When a run fails
- `on-task-start` - When a task begins
- `on-task-complete` - When a task completes
- `on-error` - When an error occurs
- `on-step` - After each orchestration step

## Migration from Direct CLI Usage

If you previously used the breakpoints CLI directly in custom code:

**Before:**
```bash
# Old approach - direct CLI usage
breakpoints breakpoint create \
  --question "Approve?" \
  --run-id "$RUN_ID"
```

**After:**
```bash
# New approach - use hook dispatcher
echo '{"question":"Approve?","runId":"'$RUN_ID'"}' | \
  plugins/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint-dispatcher.sh
```

The default behavior is identical, but now you can add custom hooks without modifying core logic.

## Support

For questions or issues with hooks:
1. Check hook logs (stderr output)
2. Test hooks independently with sample payloads
3. Review `on-breakpoint-dispatcher.sh` execution summary
4. Ensure hooks are executable (`chmod +x`)
5. Check JSON syntax with `jq`

## Reference

### Hook Locations

| Location | Priority | Scope | Use Case |
|----------|----------|-------|----------|
| `.a5c/hooks/<hook-name>/` | Highest | Per-repo | Team workflows, project-specific |
| `~/.config/babysitter/hooks/<hook-name>/` | Medium | Per-user | Personal preferences |
| `plugins/babysitter/hooks/<hook-name>/` | Lowest | Plugin | Default implementations |

### Available Hooks

| Hook Name | Trigger | Payload | Status |
|-----------|---------|---------|--------|
| `on-breakpoint` | Breakpoint reached | Breakpoint data | ✅ Implemented |
| `on-run-start` | Run created | Run metadata | 📋 Planned |
| `on-run-complete` | Run completed | Run results | 📋 Planned |
| `on-run-fail` | Run failed | Error details | 📋 Planned |

---

**Last Updated:** 2026-01-19
**Plugin Version:** 1.0.0

Commit message:

refactor(babysitter): transition from task:run to task:post for task execution
Updated the Babysitter CLI to replace the deprecated task:run command with task:post, enhancing the orchestration model to be fully hook-driven. This change includes modifications across various files, including documentation updates, removal of legacy code, and adjustments to the CLI commands to ensure proper task result posting. The new model allows for external task execution and improved result handling.

plugins/babysitter/skills/babysitter/reference/HOOKS.md, after:

# Babysitter Hook System

**Version:** 2.1 (Runtime Integration)
**Date:** 2026-01-19

> **✨ New in v2.1:** Lifecycle hooks are now **automatically triggered** by the SDK runtime at key lifecycle points (createRun, orchestrateIteration, task execution). No manual hook calls needed in process files for SDK lifecycle events.
>
> **New in v2.0:** The hook system has been generalized to support **12 hook types** across the orchestration lifecycle, plus SDK integration for calling hooks directly from process files via `ctx.hook()`. See [HOOK_SYSTEM_V2_SUMMARY.md](./HOOK_SYSTEM_V2_SUMMARY.md) for complete v2.0 details.

## Overview

The babysitter plugin uses a **generalized hook-based architecture** to allow extensibility at key points in the orchestration lifecycle. Hooks are shell scripts that receive event data via stdin and can execute custom logic in response.

**Key Features:**
- ✅ Generic hook dispatcher supporting any hook type
- ✅ SDK integration - `ctx.hook()` callable from `main.js`
- ✅ 12 lifecycle hook types (8 SDK + 4 process-level)
- ✅ Backwards compatible with v1.0 hooks
- ✅ TypeScript support with full type definitions

## Supported Hook Types

### SDK Lifecycle Hooks (Automatic)

Triggered automatically by the SDK runtime:

- **`on-run-start`** - Run created, before first step
- **`on-run-complete`** - Run finished successfully
- **`on-run-fail`** - Run failed with error
- **`on-task-start`** - Task begins execution
- **`on-task-complete`** - Task completes (success/error)
- **`on-step-dispatch`** - After each orchestration step
- **`on-iteration-start`** - Start of orchestration iteration
- **`on-iteration-end`** - End of orchestration iteration

### Process-Level Hooks (Manual)

Called explicitly from process files via `ctx.hook()`:

- **`on-breakpoint`** - User approval/input required
- **`pre-commit`** - Before committing changes
- **`pre-branch`** - Before creating branch
- **`post-planning`** - After planning phase complete
- **`on-score`** - Scoring/evaluation step

### on-breakpoint (Original)

Triggered when a breakpoint is reached during orchestration. Allows custom handling of breakpoint events.

**Default behavior:** Uses `breakpoint-cli.sh` to create breakpoint via breakpoints CLI and wait for release.

**Use cases:**
- Send notifications (Slack, email, SMS)
- Log breakpoint events
- Trigger custom approval workflows
- Integrate with external systems
- Custom UI/UX for breakpoints

## Hook Discovery

Hooks are discovered and executed in priority order:

1. **Per-repo hooks** - `.a5c/hooks/<hook-name>/`
   - Highest priority
   - Project-specific behavior
   - Committed to repository

2. **Per-user hooks** - `~/.config/babysitter/hooks/<hook-name>/`
   - User-specific preferences
   - Not in repository
   - Personal customizations

3. **Plugin hooks** - `plugins/babysitter/hooks/<hook-name>/`
   - Default implementations
   - Lowest priority
   - Shipped with plugin

Within each location, hooks are executed in alphabetical order by filename.

## Calling Hooks

### From Process Files (main.js)

The ProcessContext provides a `ctx.hook()` method for calling hooks directly:

```javascript
import { defineTask } from "@a5c-ai/babysitter-sdk";

export async function myProcess(inputs, ctx) {
  // Call pre-commit hooks before committing
  const commitResult = await ctx.hook("pre-commit", {
    files: ["src/feature.ts", "src/feature.test.ts"],
    message: "feat: add new feature",
    author: "Claude",
  });

  if (!commitResult.success) {
    throw new Error("Pre-commit hooks failed");
  }

  // Call scoring hooks
  const scoreResult = await ctx.hook("on-score", {
    target: "code-quality",
    score: 85,
    metrics: {
      coverage: 92,
      complexity: 8,
    },
  });

  // Check if any hook failed
  const failedHooks = scoreResult.executedHooks.filter(h => h.status === "failed");
  if (failedHooks.length > 0) {
    ctx.log(`Warning: ${failedHooks.length} hooks failed`);
  }

  return { ok: true };
}
```

### From Shell Scripts

Use the generic dispatcher:

```bash
# Call any hook type
echo '{"runId":"run-123","status":"completed","duration":5000}' | \
  plugins/babysitter/hooks/hook-dispatcher.sh on-run-complete

# Call on-breakpoint
cat breakpoint-payload.json | \
  plugins/babysitter/hooks/hook-dispatcher.sh on-breakpoint

# Backwards compatible - old dispatcher still works
cat breakpoint-payload.json | \
  plugins/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint-dispatcher.sh
```

### From SDK Runtime (Automatic)

**✨ New:** As of v2.1, SDK lifecycle hooks are **automatically triggered** by the runtime at key lifecycle points. No manual invocation needed.

#### Integration Points

The SDK runtime automatically calls hooks at the following points:

**In `createRun()` (packages/sdk/src/runtime/createRun.ts):**
- `on-run-start` - Called after `RUN_CREATED` event is written
- Payload: `{ runId, processId, entry, inputs, timestamp }`

**In `orchestrateIteration()` (packages/sdk/src/runtime/orchestrateIteration.ts):**
- `on-iteration-start` - Called at start of each iteration
- `on-run-complete` - Called after `RUN_COMPLETED` event
- `on-run-fail` - Called after `RUN_FAILED` event
- `on-iteration-end` - Called in finally block at end of iteration
- Payloads include: `{ runId, status, output/error, duration, timestamp }`

**In task execution (external):**
- The SDK no longer executes tasks in-process (the legacy CLI node runner was removed).
- If you want task lifecycle hooks (`on-task-start`, `on-task-complete`), emit them from your external executor (hook/worker/agent) around the work it performs.

#### Error Handling

Hook failures are handled gracefully:
- Wrapped in try-catch by `callRuntimeHook()` helper
- Failures are logged but **do not break orchestration**
- All hooks continue to execute even if one fails
- This ensures robustness - custom hooks can't crash runs

#### How It Works

The SDK runtime uses `callRuntimeHook()` from `packages/sdk/src/runtime/hooks/runtime.ts`:

```typescript
import { callRuntimeHook } from "./hooks/runtime";

// Example: In createRun()
await callRuntimeHook(
  "on-run-start",
  { runId, processId, entry, inputs },
  { cwd: runDir, logger }
);
```

This function:
1. Ensures the payload has a timestamp
2. Calls the generic hook dispatcher
3. Catches any errors and logs them
4. Returns a result without throwing (even on failure)

No code changes needed to enable these hooks - they work automatically once the SDK is integrated.

## Hook Contract

### Input

Hooks receive a JSON payload via stdin. The structure depends on the hook type.

**For on-breakpoint hooks:**
```json
{
  "question": "Approve this change?",
  "title": "Review Required",
  "runId": "run-20260119-example",
  "reason": "Critical issues found",
  "context": {
    "runId": "run-20260119-example",
    "files": [
      {
        "path": ".a5c/runs/run-20260119-example/artifacts/process.md",
        "format": "markdown"
      },
      {
        "path": ".a5c/runs/run-20260119-example/inputs.json",
        "format": "code",
        "language": "json"
      }
    ]
  },
  "summary": {
    "totalIssues": 6,
    "critical": 0,
    "high": 1
  }
}
```

### Output

Hooks can output to:
- **stdout**: Data that should be captured (e.g., breakpoint results)
- **stderr**: Logging/debugging information (visible to user)

### Exit Codes

- `0`: Success - hook executed successfully
- `non-zero`: Failure - logged but doesn't stop other hooks

**Important**: Hook failures don't stop the dispatcher. All hooks are attempted.

### Environment Variables

Hooks have access to:
- `BREAKPOINT_PAYLOAD`: The full JSON payload (also on stdin)
- `CLAUDE_PLUGIN_ROOT`: Plugin installation directory
- `REPO_ROOT`: Repository root (if set)
- `CLAUDE_SESSION_ID`: Current Claude session ID
- Standard environment variables

## Writing a Hook

### Basic Template

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# My Custom Hook
# Description of what this hook does

set -euo pipefail

# Read payload from stdin
PAYLOAD=$(cat)

# Extract fields using jq
QUESTION=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.question // "N/A"')
RUN_ID=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.runId // "unknown"')

# Do your custom logic here
echo "[my-hook] Processing breakpoint for run: $RUN_ID" >&2

# Example: Send notification
# curl -X POST https://api.example.com/notify \
#   -d "{\"message\": \"Breakpoint: $QUESTION\"}"

# Output any results to stdout (optional)
echo '{"status": "notified"}'

exit 0
```

### Installation

**Per-repo hook (recommended for team workflows):**
```bash
# Create hook directory
mkdir -p .a5c/hooks/on-breakpoint

# Create your hook
cat > .a5c/hooks/on-breakpoint/my-hook.sh <<'EOF'
#!/bin/bash
# Your hook code here
EOF

# Make executable
chmod +x .a5c/hooks/on-breakpoint/my-hook.sh

# Commit to repo
git add .a5c/hooks/on-breakpoint/my-hook.sh
git commit -m "Add custom breakpoint hook"
```

**Per-user hook (personal preferences):**
```bash
# Create hook directory
mkdir -p ~/.config/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint

# Create your hook
cat > ~/.config/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint/my-hook.sh <<'EOF'
#!/bin/bash
# Your hook code here
EOF

# Make executable
chmod +x ~/.config/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint/my-hook.sh
```

## Example Hooks

### Slack Notification

```bash
#!/bin/bash
set -euo pipefail

PAYLOAD=$(cat)
QUESTION=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.question')
RUN_ID=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.runId // "unknown"')

SLACK_WEBHOOK="${SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL:-}"

if [[ -n "$SLACK_WEBHOOK" ]]; then
  curl -X POST "$SLACK_WEBHOOK" \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d "{
      \"text\": \"🛑 Breakpoint in run \`$RUN_ID\`\",
      \"blocks\": [{
        \"type\": \"section\",
        \"text\": {
          \"type\": \"mrkdwn\",
          \"text\": \"*Question:* $QUESTION\"
        }
      }]
    }" > /dev/null 2>&1

  echo "[slack] Notification sent" >&2
fi

exit 0
```

### Email Notification

```bash
#!/bin/bash
set -euo pipefail

PAYLOAD=$(cat)
QUESTION=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.question')
RUN_ID=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.runId // "unknown"')
REASON=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.reason // "N/A"')

EMAIL="${BREAKPOINT_EMAIL:-your-email@example.com}"

{
  echo "Subject: Breakpoint in run $RUN_ID"
  echo ""
  echo "A breakpoint has been reached:"
  echo ""
  echo "Run ID: $RUN_ID"
  echo "Reason: $REASON"
  echo "Question: $QUESTION"
  echo ""
  echo "Full payload:"
  echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq '.'
} | sendmail "$EMAIL"

echo "[email] Notification sent to $EMAIL" >&2

exit 0
```

### Metrics/Telemetry

```bash
#!/bin/bash
set -euo pipefail

PAYLOAD=$(cat)
TIMESTAMP=$(date -u +"%Y-%m-%dT%H:%M:%SZ")
RUN_ID=$(echo "$PAYLOAD" | jq -r '.runId // "unknown"')

# Send to metrics system
curl -X POST https://metrics.example.com/api/events \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d "{
    \"event\": \"breakpoint\",
    \"timestamp\": \"$TIMESTAMP\",
    \"runId\": \"$RUN_ID\",
    \"payload\": $PAYLOAD
  }" > /dev/null 2>&1

echo "[metrics] Event logged" >&2

exit 0
```

## Testing Hooks

### Manual Testing

Test the dispatcher with a sample payload:

```bash
# Create test payload
cat > /tmp/test-breakpoint.json <<'EOF'
{
  "question": "Test breakpoint?",
  "runId": "test-123",
  "context": {
    "runId": "test-123"
  }
}
EOF

# Run dispatcher
cat /tmp/test-breakpoint.json | \
  plugins/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint-dispatcher.sh
```

### Testing Individual Hooks

```bash
# Test your hook directly
cat /tmp/test-breakpoint.json | \
  .a5c/hooks/on-breakpoint/my-hook.sh
```

### Debugging

Enable verbose output:

```bash
# Set environment variable for debugging
export BREAKPOINT_DEBUG=1

# Run dispatcher - will show detailed execution
cat /tmp/test-breakpoint.json | \
  plugins/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint-dispatcher.sh
```

## Best Practices

### Do's ✅

- **Make hooks idempotent** - safe to run multiple times
- **Use meaningful filenames** - `slack-notify.sh`, not `hook1.sh`
- **Log to stderr** - helps with debugging
- **Handle missing data** - use `jq -r '.field // "default"'`
- **Exit gracefully** - always return 0 for non-critical failures
- **Document your hooks** - add comments explaining purpose
- **Test thoroughly** - test with various payloads

### Don'ts ❌

- **Don't block indefinitely** - use timeouts for external calls
- **Don't fail dispatcher** - return 0 unless critically broken
- **Don't modify payload** - hooks are read-only observers
- **Don't hardcode secrets** - use environment variables
- **Don't rely on hook order** - within a directory, order is alphabetical but should be treated as concurrent
- **Don't output sensitive data** - especially to logs

## Hook Architecture

### Dispatcher Flow

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  on-breakpoint-dispatcher.sh                    │
│                                                  │
│  1. Read payload from stdin                     │
│  2. Execute per-repo hooks (.a5c/hooks/)        │
│     └─ Run all *.sh files in alphabetical order │
│  3. Execute per-user hooks (~/.config/)         │
│     └─ Run all *.sh files in alphabetical order │
│  4. Execute plugin hooks (plugins/*/hooks/)     │
│     └─ Run all *.sh files in alphabetical order │
│  5. Aggregate results and exit                  │
│                                                  │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Hook Execution

Each hook:
1. Receives full payload via stdin
2. Can access payload via `$BREAKPOINT_PAYLOAD` environment variable
3. Executes independently (failures don't affect other hooks)
4. Can output results to stdout (captured)
5. Can log to stderr (visible to user)
6. Returns exit code (0 = success, non-zero = failure)

### Default Hook (breakpoint-cli.sh)

The default `breakpoint-cli.sh` hook:
- Creates breakpoint using `breakpoints` CLI
- Waits for release with polling
- Returns feedback data
- This is the previous behavior, now as a pluggable hook

## Future Hook Types

The following hooks are planned for future implementation:

- `on-run-start` - When a run is created
- `on-run-complete` - When a run completes successfully
- `on-run-fail` - When a run fails
- `on-task-start` - When a task begins
- `on-task-complete` - When a task completes
- `on-error` - When an error occurs
- `on-step` - After each orchestration step

## Migration from Direct CLI Usage

If you previously used the breakpoints CLI directly in custom code:

**Before:**
```bash
# Old approach - direct CLI usage
breakpoints breakpoint create \
  --question "Approve?" \
  --run-id "$RUN_ID"
```

**After:**
```bash
# New approach - use hook dispatcher
echo '{"question":"Approve?","runId":"'$RUN_ID'"}' | \
  plugins/babysitter/hooks/on-breakpoint-dispatcher.sh
```

The default behavior is identical, but now you can add custom hooks without modifying core logic.

## Support

For questions or issues with hooks:
1. Check hook logs (stderr output)
2. Test hooks independently with sample payloads
3. Review `on-breakpoint-dispatcher.sh` execution summary
4. Ensure hooks are executable (`chmod +x`)
5. Check JSON syntax with `jq`

## Reference

### Hook Locations

| Location | Priority | Scope | Use Case |
|----------|----------|-------|----------|
| `.a5c/hooks/<hook-name>/` | Highest | Per-repo | Team workflows, project-specific |
| `~/.config/babysitter/hooks/<hook-name>/` | Medium | Per-user | Personal preferences |
| `plugins/babysitter/hooks/<hook-name>/` | Lowest | Plugin | Default implementations |

### Available Hooks

| Hook Name | Trigger | Payload | Status |
|-----------|---------|---------|--------|
| `on-breakpoint` | Breakpoint reached | Breakpoint data | ✅ Implemented |
| `on-run-start` | Run created | Run metadata | 📋 Planned |
| `on-run-complete` | Run completed | Run results | 📋 Planned |
| `on-run-fail` | Run failed | Error details | 📋 Planned |

---

**Last Updated:** 2026-01-19
**Plugin Version:** 1.0.0
