docs/user-guide/features/breakpoints.md, before:

# Breakpoints: Human-in-the-Loop Approval

**Version:** 1.0
**Last Updated:** 2026-01-25
**Category:** Feature Guide

---

## Overview

Breakpoints provide human-in-the-loop approval gates within Babysitter workflows. Use breakpoints to pause automated execution at critical decision points, review context files, and make informed approvals before proceeding.

### Why Use Breakpoints

- **Production Safety**: Require human approval before deploying to production environments
- **Quality Gates**: Review generated plans, specifications, or code before implementation
- **Compliance**: Create audit trails of human approvals for regulated environments
- **Risk Mitigation**: Pause execution when automated decisions carry significant risk
- **Team Collaboration**: Enable asynchronous review workflows across distributed teams

---

## Use Cases and Scenarios

### Scenario 1: Plan Approval Before Implementation

Pause after generating an implementation plan to ensure the approach is correct.

```javascript
export async function process(inputs, ctx) {
  // Generate implementation plan
  const plan = await ctx.task(generatePlanTask, { feature: inputs.feature });

  // Request human approval
  await ctx.breakpoint({
    question: 'Review the implementation plan. Approve to proceed?',
    title: 'Plan Review',
    context: {
      runId: ctx.runId,
      files: [
        { path: 'artifacts/plan.md', format: 'markdown' }
      ]
    }
  });

  // Continue only after approval
  const result = await ctx.task(implementTask, { plan });
  return result;
}
```

### Scenario 2: Pre-Deployment Approval

Require sign-off before deploying changes to production.

```javascript
await ctx.breakpoint({
  question: 'Deploy to production?',
  title: 'Production Deployment',
  context: {
    runId: ctx.runId,
    files: [
      { path: 'artifacts/final-report.md', format: 'markdown' },
      { path: 'artifacts/coverage-report.html', format: 'html' },
      { path: 'artifacts/quality-score.json', format: 'code', language: 'json' }
    ]
  }
});
```

### Scenario 3: Quality Score Review

Allow humans to review quality convergence results and decide whether to continue iteration.

```javascript
if (qualityScore < targetQuality && iteration < maxIterations) {
  await ctx.breakpoint({
    question: `Iteration ${iteration} complete. Quality: ${qualityScore}/${targetQuality}. Continue to iteration ${iteration + 1}?`,
    title: `Iteration ${iteration} Review`,
    context: {
      runId: ctx.runId,
      files: [
        { path: `artifacts/iteration-${iteration}-report.md`, format: 'markdown' }
      ]
    }
  });
}
```

---

## Step-by-Step Instructions

### Step 1: Start the Breakpoints Service

Start the breakpoints service before running workflows that contain breakpoints.

```bash
npx -y @a5c-ai/babysitter-breakpoints@latest start
```

The service runs at:
- **Web UI**: http://localhost:3184
- **API**: http://localhost:3185

### Step 2: Add Breakpoints to Your Process

Use `ctx.breakpoint()` in your process definition to create approval gates.

**Basic breakpoint:**

```javascript
await ctx.breakpoint({
  question: 'Approve the changes?',
  title: 'Review Required'
});
```

**Breakpoint with context files:**

```javascript
await ctx.breakpoint({
  question: 'Approve the implementation plan?',
  title: 'Plan Approval',
  context: {
    runId: ctx.runId,
    files: [
      { path: 'artifacts/plan.md', format: 'markdown' },
      { path: 'code/main.js', format: 'code', language: 'javascript' },
      { path: 'inputs.json', format: 'code', language: 'json' }
    ]
  }
});
```

### Step 3: Run Your Workflow

Execute your workflow using the babysitter skill or CLI.

```bash
claude "/babysit implement user authentication with breakpoint approval"
```

### Step 4: Review and Approve

When the workflow reaches a breakpoint:

1. **Open the Web UI**: Navigate to http://localhost:3184 in your browser
2. **Review Context**: Examine the question, title, and any attached context files
3. **Make a Decision**: Click **Approve** to continue or **Reject** to halt the workflow
4. **Add Comments** (optional): Provide feedback that will be recorded in the run journal

### Step 5: Resume Workflow

After approval, the workflow automatically continues from where it paused.

---

## Configuration Options

### Breakpoint Payload Schema

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `question` | string | Yes | The question presented to the reviewer |
| `title` | string | No | A short title for the breakpoint |
| `context` | object | No | Additional context for the reviewer |
| `context.runId` | string | No | The run ID for linking context files |
| `context.files` | array | No | Array of files to display for review |

### Context File Schema

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `path` | string | Yes | Relative path to the file within the run directory |
| `format` | string | Yes | File format: `markdown`, `html`, `code`, `text` |
| `language` | string | No | Programming language for syntax highlighting (when format is `code`) |

### External Access Configuration

**Using ngrok for remote access:**

```bash
ngrok http 3184
```

**Using Telegram for mobile notifications:**

Configure Telegram integration through the breakpoints UI at http://localhost:3184.

---

## Code Examples and Best Practices

### Example 1: Conditional Breakpoints

Only request approval when certain conditions are met.

```javascript
export async function process(inputs, ctx) {
  const analysis = await ctx.task(analyzeTask, { code: inputs.code });

  // Only request approval for high-risk changes
  if (analysis.riskLevel === 'high') {
    await ctx.breakpoint({
      question: `High-risk changes detected (${analysis.riskFactors.join(', ')}). Approve to proceed?`,
      title: 'High-Risk Change Review',
      context: {
        runId: ctx.runId,
        files: [
          { path: 'artifacts/risk-analysis.md', format: 'markdown' }
        ]
      }
    });
  }

  return await ctx.task(applyChangesTask, { changes: analysis.changes });
}
```

### Example 2: Multi-Stage Approval Workflow

Implement multiple approval gates for different phases.

```javascript
export async function process(inputs, ctx) {
  // Phase 1: Design
  const design = await ctx.task(designTask, inputs);

  await ctx.breakpoint({
    question: 'Approve the design?',
    title: 'Design Review',
    context: { runId: ctx.runId, files: [{ path: 'artifacts/design.md', format: 'markdown' }] }
  });

  // Phase 2: Implementation
  const implementation = await ctx.task(implementTask, { design });

  await ctx.breakpoint({
    question: 'Approve the implementation?',
    title: 'Implementation Review',
    context: { runId: ctx.runId, files: [{ path: 'artifacts/implementation.md', format: 'markdown' }] }
  });

  // Phase 3: Deployment
  await ctx.breakpoint({
    question: 'Approve deployment to production?',
    title: 'Deployment Approval',
    context: { runId: ctx.runId, files: [{ path: 'artifacts/deployment-checklist.md', format: 'markdown' }] }
  });

  return await ctx.task(deployTask, { implementation });
}
```

### Example 3: Breakpoints with Quality Gates

Combine breakpoints with quality scoring for informed decisions.

```javascript
const qualityScore = await ctx.task(agentQualityScoringTask, {
  tests: testsResult,
  implementation: implementationResult,
  coverage: coverageResult
});

await ctx.breakpoint({
  question: `Quality score: ${qualityScore.overallScore}/100. ${qualityScore.summary}. Approve for merge?`,
  title: 'Final Quality Review',
  context: {
    runId: ctx.runId,
    files: [
      { path: 'artifacts/quality-report.md', format: 'markdown' },
      { path: 'artifacts/coverage-report.html', format: 'html' }
    ]
  }
});
```

### Best Practices

1. **Write Clear Questions**: Make the question specific and actionable
2. **Provide Sufficient Context**: Include all files necessary for making an informed decision
3. **Use Descriptive Titles**: Help reviewers quickly understand what they are approving
4. **Place Strategically**: Add breakpoints before irreversible actions
5. **Minimize Unnecessary Approvals**: Too many breakpoints slow down workflows

---

## Common Pitfalls and Troubleshooting

### Pitfall 1: Breakpoint Not Resolving

**Symptom:**
```
Waiting for breakpoint approval...
Timeout after 300s
```

**Causes:**
- Breakpoints service not running
- Service not accessible from the network

**Solution:**

1. Verify the service is running:
   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:3184/health
   ```

2. Start the service if not running:
   ```bash
   npx -y @a5c-ai/babysitter-breakpoints@latest start
   ```

3. Check ngrok tunnel if using remote access:
   ```bash
   ngrok http 3184
   ```

### Pitfall 2: Context Files Not Displaying

**Symptom:** Breakpoint appears in UI but context files are missing or empty.

**Causes:**
- Incorrect file paths in the context configuration
- Files not yet written when breakpoint triggered

**Solution:**

1. Ensure files are written before calling `ctx.breakpoint()`:
   ```javascript
   await ctx.task(writeArtifactTask, { content: plan, path: 'artifacts/plan.md' });
   await ctx.breakpoint({ /* ... */ });
   ```

2. Verify file paths are relative to the run directory:
   ```javascript
   { path: 'artifacts/plan.md', format: 'markdown' }  // Correct
   { path: '/absolute/path/plan.md', format: 'markdown' }  // Incorrect
   ```

### Pitfall 3: Breakpoint Blocking CI/CD Pipelines

**Symptom:** CI/CD job hangs waiting for manual approval.

**Cause:** Automated pipelines cannot interact with breakpoints requiring human input.

**Solution:**

1. Use conditional breakpoints that only trigger in non-CI environments:
   ```javascript
   if (process.env.CI !== 'true') {
     await ctx.breakpoint({ /* ... */ });
   }
   ```

2. Implement auto-approval for CI with appropriate safeguards:
   ```javascript
   if (process.env.CI === 'true' && qualityScore >= targetQuality) {
     ctx.log('Auto-approved in CI environment');
   } else {
     await ctx.breakpoint({ /* ... */ });
   }
   ```

### Pitfall 4: Session Timeout During Long Reviews

**Symptom:** Workflow fails or loses state while waiting for lengthy review.

**Solution:**

- Babysitter workflows are fully resumable. If a session times out:
  ```bash
  claude "Resume the babysitter run and continue"
  ```

- The breakpoint state is preserved in the journal and will be restored on resume.

---

## Related Documentation

- [Process Definitions](./process-definitions.md) - Learn how to create workflows with breakpoints
- [Run Resumption](./run-resumption.md) - Resume workflows after breakpoint approval
- [Journal System](./journal-system.md) - Understand how breakpoint events are recorded

---

## Summary

Breakpoints enable human-in-the-loop approval within automated workflows. Use them strategically to ensure human oversight at critical decision points while maintaining the benefits of automation. Configure the breakpoints service for your team's needs, whether through local web UI, ngrok tunneling, or Telegram integration.

Commit message:

docs: add Best Practices Guide and update navigation for improved workflow design and quality convergence

docs/user-guide/features/breakpoints.md, after:

# Breakpoints: Human-in-the-Loop Approval

**Version:** 1.0
**Last Updated:** 2026-01-25
**Category:** Feature Guide

---

## Overview

Breakpoints provide human-in-the-loop approval gates within Babysitter workflows. Use breakpoints to pause automated execution at critical decision points, review context files, and make informed approvals before proceeding.

### Why Use Breakpoints

- **Production Safety**: Require human approval before deploying to production environments
- **Quality Gates**: Review generated plans, specifications, or code before implementation
- **Compliance**: Create audit trails of human approvals for regulated environments
- **Risk Mitigation**: Pause execution when automated decisions carry significant risk
- **Team Collaboration**: Enable asynchronous review workflows across distributed teams

---

## Use Cases and Scenarios

### Scenario 1: Plan Approval Before Implementation

Pause after generating an implementation plan to ensure the approach is correct.

```javascript
export async function process(inputs, ctx) {
  // Generate implementation plan
  const plan = await ctx.task(generatePlanTask, { feature: inputs.feature });

  // Request human approval
  await ctx.breakpoint({
    question: 'Review the implementation plan. Approve to proceed?',
    title: 'Plan Review',
    context: {
      runId: ctx.runId,
      files: [
        { path: 'artifacts/plan.md', format: 'markdown' }
      ]
    }
  });

  // Continue only after approval
  const result = await ctx.task(implementTask, { plan });
  return result;
}
```

### Scenario 2: Pre-Deployment Approval

Require sign-off before deploying changes to production.

```javascript
await ctx.breakpoint({
  question: 'Deploy to production?',
  title: 'Production Deployment',
  context: {
    runId: ctx.runId,
    files: [
      { path: 'artifacts/final-report.md', format: 'markdown' },
      { path: 'artifacts/coverage-report.html', format: 'html' },
      { path: 'artifacts/quality-score.json', format: 'code', language: 'json' }
    ]
  }
});
```

### Scenario 3: Quality Score Review

Allow humans to review quality convergence results and decide whether to continue iteration.

```javascript
if (qualityScore < targetQuality && iteration < maxIterations) {
  await ctx.breakpoint({
    question: `Iteration ${iteration} complete. Quality: ${qualityScore}/${targetQuality}. Continue to iteration ${iteration + 1}?`,
    title: `Iteration ${iteration} Review`,
    context: {
      runId: ctx.runId,
      files: [
        { path: `artifacts/iteration-${iteration}-report.md`, format: 'markdown' }
      ]
    }
  });
}
```

---

## Step-by-Step Instructions

### Step 1: Start the Breakpoints Service

Start the breakpoints service before running workflows that contain breakpoints.

```bash
npx -y @a5c-ai/babysitter-breakpoints@latest start
```

The service runs at:
- **Web UI**: http://localhost:3184
- **API**: http://localhost:3185

### Step 2: Add Breakpoints to Your Process

Use `ctx.breakpoint()` in your process definition to create approval gates.

**Basic breakpoint:**

```javascript
await ctx.breakpoint({
  question: 'Approve the changes?',
  title: 'Review Required'
});
```

**Breakpoint with context files:**

```javascript
await ctx.breakpoint({
  question: 'Approve the implementation plan?',
  title: 'Plan Approval',
  context: {
    runId: ctx.runId,
    files: [
      { path: 'artifacts/plan.md', format: 'markdown' },
      { path: 'code/main.js', format: 'code', language: 'javascript' },
      { path: 'inputs.json', format: 'code', language: 'json' }
    ]
  }
});
```

### Step 3: Run Your Workflow

Execute your workflow using the babysitter skill or CLI.

```bash
claude "/babysit implement user authentication with breakpoint approval"
```

### Step 4: Review and Approve

When the workflow reaches a breakpoint:

1. **Open the Web UI**: Navigate to http://localhost:3184 in your browser
2. **Review Context**: Examine the question, title, and any attached context files
3. **Make a Decision**: Click **Approve** to continue or **Reject** to halt the workflow
4. **Add Comments** (optional): Provide feedback that will be recorded in the run journal

### Step 5: Resume Workflow

After approval, the workflow automatically continues from where it paused.

---

## Configuration Options

### Breakpoint Payload Schema

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `question` | string | Yes | The question presented to the reviewer |
| `title` | string | No | A short title for the breakpoint |
| `context` | object | No | Additional context for the reviewer |
| `context.runId` | string | No | The run ID for linking context files |
| `context.files` | array | No | Array of files to display for review |

### Context File Schema

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
|-------|------|----------|-------------|
| `path` | string | Yes | Relative path to the file within the run directory |
| `format` | string | Yes | File format: `markdown`, `html`, `code`, `text` |
| `language` | string | No | Programming language for syntax highlighting (when format is `code`) |

### External Access Configuration

**Using ngrok for remote access:**

```bash
ngrok http 3184
```

**Using Telegram for mobile notifications:**

Configure Telegram integration through the breakpoints UI at http://localhost:3184.

---

## Code Examples and Best Practices

### Example 1: Conditional Breakpoints

Only request approval when certain conditions are met.

```javascript
export async function process(inputs, ctx) {
  const analysis = await ctx.task(analyzeTask, { code: inputs.code });

  // Only request approval for high-risk changes
  if (analysis.riskLevel === 'high') {
    await ctx.breakpoint({
      question: `High-risk changes detected (${analysis.riskFactors.join(', ')}). Approve to proceed?`,
      title: 'High-Risk Change Review',
      context: {
        runId: ctx.runId,
        files: [
          { path: 'artifacts/risk-analysis.md', format: 'markdown' }
        ]
      }
    });
  }

  return await ctx.task(applyChangesTask, { changes: analysis.changes });
}
```

### Example 2: Multi-Stage Approval Workflow

Implement multiple approval gates for different phases.

```javascript
export async function process(inputs, ctx) {
  // Phase 1: Design
  const design = await ctx.task(designTask, inputs);

  await ctx.breakpoint({
    question: 'Approve the design?',
    title: 'Design Review',
    context: { runId: ctx.runId, files: [{ path: 'artifacts/design.md', format: 'markdown' }] }
  });

  // Phase 2: Implementation
  const implementation = await ctx.task(implementTask, { design });

  await ctx.breakpoint({
    question: 'Approve the implementation?',
    title: 'Implementation Review',
    context: { runId: ctx.runId, files: [{ path: 'artifacts/implementation.md', format: 'markdown' }] }
  });

  // Phase 3: Deployment
  await ctx.breakpoint({
    question: 'Approve deployment to production?',
    title: 'Deployment Approval',
    context: { runId: ctx.runId, files: [{ path: 'artifacts/deployment-checklist.md', format: 'markdown' }] }
  });

  return await ctx.task(deployTask, { implementation });
}
```

### Example 3: Breakpoints with Quality Gates

Combine breakpoints with quality scoring for informed decisions.

```javascript
const qualityScore = await ctx.task(agentQualityScoringTask, {
  tests: testsResult,
  implementation: implementationResult,
  coverage: coverageResult
});

await ctx.breakpoint({
  question: `Quality score: ${qualityScore.overallScore}/100. ${qualityScore.summary}. Approve for merge?`,
  title: 'Final Quality Review',
  context: {
    runId: ctx.runId,
    files: [
      { path: 'artifacts/quality-report.md', format: 'markdown' },
      { path: 'artifacts/coverage-report.html', format: 'html' }
    ]
  }
});
```

### Best Practices

1. **Write Clear Questions**: Make the question specific and actionable
2. **Provide Sufficient Context**: Include all files necessary for making an informed decision
3. **Use Descriptive Titles**: Help reviewers quickly understand what they are approving
4. **Place Strategically**: Add breakpoints before irreversible actions
5. **Minimize Unnecessary Approvals**: Too many breakpoints slow down workflows

---

## Common Pitfalls and Troubleshooting

### Pitfall 1: Breakpoint Not Resolving

**Symptom:**
```
Waiting for breakpoint approval...
Timeout after 300s
```

**Causes:**
- Breakpoints service not running
- Service not accessible from the network

**Solution:**

1. Verify the service is running:
   ```bash
   curl http://localhost:3184/health
   ```

2. Start the service if not running:
   ```bash
   npx -y @a5c-ai/babysitter-breakpoints@latest start
   ```

3. Check ngrok tunnel if using remote access:
   ```bash
   ngrok http 3184
   ```

### Pitfall 2: Context Files Not Displaying

**Symptom:** Breakpoint appears in UI but context files are missing or empty.

**Causes:**
- Incorrect file paths in the context configuration
- Files not yet written when breakpoint triggered

**Solution:**

1. Ensure files are written before calling `ctx.breakpoint()`:
   ```javascript
   await ctx.task(writeArtifactTask, { content: plan, path: 'artifacts/plan.md' });
   await ctx.breakpoint({ /* ... */ });
   ```

2. Verify file paths are relative to the run directory:
   ```javascript
   { path: 'artifacts/plan.md', format: 'markdown' }  // Correct
   { path: '/absolute/path/plan.md', format: 'markdown' }  // Incorrect
   ```

### Pitfall 3: Breakpoint Blocking CI/CD Pipelines

**Symptom:** CI/CD job hangs waiting for manual approval.

**Cause:** Automated pipelines cannot interact with breakpoints requiring human input.

**Solution:**

1. Use conditional breakpoints that only trigger in non-CI environments:
   ```javascript
   if (process.env.CI !== 'true') {
     await ctx.breakpoint({ /* ... */ });
   }
   ```

2. Implement auto-approval for CI with appropriate safeguards:
   ```javascript
   if (process.env.CI === 'true' && qualityScore >= targetQuality) {
     ctx.log('Auto-approved in CI environment');
   } else {
     await ctx.breakpoint({ /* ... */ });
   }
   ```

### Pitfall 4: Session Timeout During Long Reviews

**Symptom:** Workflow fails or loses state while waiting for lengthy review.

**Solution:**

- Babysitter workflows are fully resumable. If a session times out:
  ```bash
  claude "Resume the babysitter run and continue"
  ```

- The breakpoint state is preserved in the journal and will be restored on resume.

---

## Related Documentation

- [Process Definitions](./process-definitions.md) - Learn how to create workflows with breakpoints
- [Run Resumption](./run-resumption.md) - Resume workflows after breakpoint approval
- [Journal System](./journal-system.md) - Understand how breakpoint events are recorded
- [Best Practices](./best-practices.md) - Patterns for strategic breakpoint placement and workflow design

---

## Summary

Breakpoints enable human-in-the-loop approval within automated workflows. Use them strategically to ensure human oversight at critical decision points while maintaining the benefits of automation. Configure the breakpoints service for your team's needs, whether through local web UI, ngrok tunneling, or Telegram integration.
