docs/user-guide/index.md, before:

---
title: Babysitter User Guide
description: Comprehensive documentation for Babysitter - the AI-powered development workflow orchestrator with quality convergence and human-in-the-loop approval
category: landing
last_updated: 2026-01-26
---

# Babysitter User Guide

Welcome to the Babysitter documentation. Babysitter is an AI-powered development workflow orchestrator that enables iterative quality convergence with human-in-the-loop approval through breakpoints.

---

## Quick Start

Get up and running with Babysitter in minutes.

| Step | Description | Time |
|------|-------------|------|
| [Installation](./getting-started/installation.md) | Install the Babysitter plugin | 5 min |
| [Quickstart](./getting-started/quickstart.md) | Configure your environment | 5 min |
| [First Run](./getting-started/first-run.md) | Execute your first babysitter workflow | 10 min |

---
## What is Babysitter? (Start Here if You're New)

**Babysitter automates the "try, check, fix, repeat" cycle of development** so you don't have to do it manually.

### The Problem Babysitter Solves

When you ask an AI to write code, you typically:
1. Get code from the AI
2. Run tests → tests fail
3. Send errors back to AI
4. Get fixed code
5. Run tests again → still failing
6. Repeat 5-10 times...

**Babysitter automates this entire loop**, running it until your quality targets are met.

### How It Works (In Plain English)

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  YOU: "Build a login page with tests"                           │
│                         ↓                                       │
│  BABYSITTER: Runs this loop automatically:                      │
│    1. AI writes code                                            │
│    2. Tests run → 60% pass                                      │
│    3. AI fixes failures                                         │
│    4. Tests run → 85% pass                                      │
│    5. AI fixes remaining issues                                 │
│    6. Tests run → 95% pass ✓ Target met!                       │
│                         ↓                                       │
│  YOU: Review and approve the final result                       │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Key Terms You'll See

| Term | What It Means | Example |
|------|---------------|---------|
| **Process** | A workflow definition | "Build feature with TDD" |
| **Run** | One execution of a process | Running the TDD workflow for your login page |
| **Task** | A single step in the process | "Write tests", "Run linter", "Check coverage" |
| **Quality Gate** | A check that must pass | Tests must be 90% passing |
| **Breakpoint** | A pause for human approval | "Review this code before I deploy it" |
| **Iteration** | One try-check-fix cycle | Attempt #3 to pass the tests |
| **Convergence** | Improving until target met | Going from 60% → 85% → 95% |

### Your First 5 Minutes

**What you'll do:**
1. Install Babysitter (1 command)
2. Run a simple workflow (1 command)
3. See it iterate until tests pass
4. Approve the result

**What you'll learn:**
- How the iteration loop works
- What a quality gate looks like
- How to approve at breakpoints

**What you'll see:**

```
/babysit build a calculator with add, subtract, multiply, divide using TDD

Creating run: calculator-20260125-143012
Process: TDD Quality Convergence
Target: 90% quality

Iteration 1: Quality 65/100 - Tests: 6/10 passing
  → AI fixing test failures...

Iteration 2: Quality 82/100 - Tests: 9/10 passing
  → AI improving code coverage...

Iteration 3: Quality 95/100 - Target met! ✅
  → Waiting for your approval at http://localhost:3184

[You approve via web UI]

Done! Your calculator module is ready.
```

**The main command:** `/babysit <your request>` handles everything automatically.

→ **[Start the Quick Start Tutorial](./getting-started/quickstart.md)**

---

## Documentation Sections

### Tutorials

Step-by-step learning guides that take you from beginner to expert.

| Tutorial | Level | Time | Description |
|----------|-------|------|-------------|
| [Getting Started](./getting-started/README.md) | Beginner | 20 min | Installation, setup, and your first run |
| [Build a REST API](./tutorials/beginner-rest-api.md) | Beginner | 45 min | Create a complete REST API with TDD |
| [Custom Process](./tutorials/intermediate-custom-process.md) | Intermediate | 60 min | Build your own process definition |
| [Multi-Phase Workflows](./tutorials/advanced-multi-phase.md) | Advanced | 90 min | Orchestrate complex multi-phase development |

---

### Features

Deep dives into Babysitter's core capabilities.

| Feature | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| [**Process Library**](./features/process-library.md) | **2,000+ pre-built processes** across 30+ categories - web, AI, DevOps, science, business, and more |
| [**Two-Loops Architecture**](./features/two-loops-architecture.md) | **Hybrid agentic systems** - symbolic orchestration + agentic harness, guardrails, and evidence-driven completion |
| [**Quality Convergence**](./features/quality-convergence.md) | **Five quality gate types** (tests, code quality, static analysis, security, performance) with 90-score patterns |
| [**Best Practices**](./features/best-practices.md) | **Four guardrail layers**, multi-gate validation, workflow design, and team collaboration patterns |
| [Breakpoints](./features/breakpoints.md) | Human-in-the-loop approval system for critical decisions |
| [Process Definitions](./features/process-definitions.md) | Customizable workflow templates and task orchestration |
| [Journal System](./features/journal-system.md) | Event-sourced audit trail and state reconstruction |
| [Run Resumption](./features/run-resumption.md) | Continue interrupted workflows from any point |
| [Parallel Execution](./features/parallel-execution.md) | Concurrent task execution for faster results |
| [VSCode Extension](./features/vscode-extension.md) | Monitor, dispatch, and interact with runs from VSCode |
| [Telegram Integration](./features/telegram-integration.md) | Mobile notifications and breakpoint approvals via Telegram |

> **Highlight:** The Process Library contains ready-to-use orchestration for virtually any development task - from React components to machine learning pipelines to business process modeling. [Explore the library →](./features/process-library.md)

> **Essential Reading:** Understanding the [Two-Loops Architecture](./features/two-loops-architecture.md) is key to designing reliable, bounded agentic workflows with proper guardrails and evidence-driven completion.

---

### Reference

Technical specifications and lookup resources.

| Reference | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| [CLI Reference](./reference/cli-reference.md) | Complete command-line interface documentation |
| [Configuration](./reference/configuration.md) | Environment variables and config file options |
| [Error Catalog](./reference/error-catalog.md) | All error codes with solutions |
| [Glossary](./reference/glossary.md) | Terminology and definitions |
| [FAQ](./reference/faq.md) | Frequently asked questions |
| [Troubleshooting](./reference/troubleshooting.md) | Common issues and resolutions |

---

## Learning Paths

Choose a path based on your role and goals.

### For Developers New to Babysitter

**Start here if this is your first time using Babysitter:**

1. **First:** Read the ["What is Babysitter?" section](#what-is-babysitter-start-here-if-youre-new) above - it takes 2 minutes and explains the core concepts
2. **Then:** Complete the [Getting Started](./getting-started/README.md) tutorial (20 min) - you'll install and run your first workflow
3. **Practice:** Build your first project with [REST API Tutorial](./tutorials/beginner-rest-api.md) (45 min)
4. **Reference:** Use the [Glossary](./reference/glossary.md) when you encounter unfamiliar terms (it has a quick-reference table at the top)

### For Experienced Developers

1. Quick setup via [Installation](./getting-started/installation.md)
2. Learn the [Five Quality Gate Types](./features/quality-convergence.md#the-five-quality-gate-categories) for robust validation
3. Study [Best Practices](./features/best-practices.md) for workflow design
4. Reference the [CLI](./reference/cli-reference.md) for automation

### For Technical Leads and Architects

1. **Start here:** Understand the [Two-Loops Architecture](./features/two-loops-architecture.md) philosophy
2. Study [Quality Convergence](./features/quality-convergence.md) for the 90-score convergence pattern
3. Review the [Four Guardrail Layers](./features/best-practices.md#the-four-guardrail-layers) for safety and control
4. Learn [Journal System](./features/journal-system.md) for audit compliance
5. Explore [Custom Process](./tutorials/intermediate-custom-process.md) for team workflows

### For Quality Engineers

1. **Essential:** Study the [Five Quality Gate Types](./features/quality-convergence.md#the-five-quality-gate-categories)
2. Review [The 90-Score Convergence Pattern](./features/quality-convergence.md#the-90-score-quality-convergence-pattern)
3. Understand [Evidence-Driven Completion](./features/two-loops-architecture.md#quality-gates-turning-agentic-work-into-reliable-outcomes)
4. Apply [Domain-Specific Targets](./features/best-practices.md) from Best Practices

### For DevOps and Automation Engineers

1. Install using [Quickstart](./getting-started/quickstart.md)
2. Master the [CLI Reference](./reference/cli-reference.md)
3. Configure via [Configuration Reference](./reference/configuration.md)
4. Automate with [Run Resumption](./features/run-resumption.md)

---

## What's New

### Version 0.0.123 (2026-01-25)

- Added numerous new skills and agents across various engineering domains
- Enhanced babysitter capabilities in chemical, civil, electrical, and environmental engineering
- New scientific discovery processes

### Recent Updates

| Version | Date | Highlights |
|---------|------|------------|
| 0.0.123 | 2026-01-25 | Engineering domain skills expansion |
| 0.0.122 | 2026-01-24 | Bug fixes and stability improvements |
| 0.0.121 | 2026-01-23 | Performance optimizations |

For the complete changelog, see the [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/a5c-ai/babysitter/releases).

---

## Search Tips

Finding what you need quickly:

- **Commands:** Search for the command name (e.g., `run:create`, `effects:get`)
- **Errors:** Search for the error code or key words from the message
- **Concepts:** Use terms from the [Glossary](./reference/glossary.md)
- **Tasks:** Search for what you want to do (e.g., "resume", "breakpoint", "quality")

---

## Getting Help

### Documentation Resources

- [FAQ](./reference/faq.md) - Common questions answered
- [Troubleshooting](./reference/troubleshooting.md) - Problem resolution guides
- [Error Catalog](./reference/error-catalog.md) - Error codes and fixes

### Community and Support

- **GitHub Issues:** [Report bugs or request features](https://github.com/a5c-ai/babysitter/issues)
- **Discussions:** [Community Q&A and discussions](https://github.com/a5c-ai/babysitter/discussions)

---

## Documentation Structure

This documentation follows the [Diataxis framework](https://diataxis.fr/):

| Category | Purpose | User Mode |
|----------|---------|-----------|
| **Tutorials** | Learning through guided projects | Study |
| **Features** | Understanding capabilities | Study |
| **Reference** | Technical lookup information | Work |
| **How-to Guides** | Task-focused problem solving | Work |

---

## Contributing

Found an issue with the documentation? Contributions are welcome.

1. Check existing [issues](https://github.com/a5c-ai/babysitter/issues) first
2. Submit corrections via pull request
3. Follow the documentation style guide

---

*Last updated: 2026-01-25*

Commit message:

docs: update breakpoint handling and user guidance
Enhanced documentation for breakpoints, clarifying the two modes of operation: Interactive (handled in Claude Code chat) and Non-Interactive (requires breakpoints service). Updated various sections to reflect these changes, including user guides, tutorials, and CLI references. Added notes on approval processes and troubleshooting for both modes, ensuring users have clear instructions for managing breakpoints effectively.

docs/user-guide/index.md, after:

---
title: Babysitter User Guide
description: Comprehensive documentation for Babysitter - the AI-powered development workflow orchestrator with quality convergence and human-in-the-loop approval
category: landing
last_updated: 2026-01-26
---

# Babysitter User Guide

Welcome to the Babysitter documentation. Babysitter is an AI-powered development workflow orchestrator that enables iterative quality convergence with human-in-the-loop approval through breakpoints.

---

## Quick Start

Get up and running with Babysitter in minutes.

| Step | Description | Time |
|------|-------------|------|
| [Installation](./getting-started/installation.md) | Install the Babysitter plugin | 5 min |
| [Quickstart](./getting-started/quickstart.md) | Configure your environment | 5 min |
| [First Run](./getting-started/first-run.md) | Execute your first babysitter workflow | 10 min |

---
## What is Babysitter? (Start Here if You're New)

**Babysitter automates the "try, check, fix, repeat" cycle of development** so you don't have to do it manually.

### The Problem Babysitter Solves

When you ask an AI to write code, you typically:
1. Get code from the AI
2. Run tests → tests fail
3. Send errors back to AI
4. Get fixed code
5. Run tests again → still failing
6. Repeat 5-10 times...

**Babysitter automates this entire loop**, running it until your quality targets are met.

### How It Works (In Plain English)

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  YOU: "Build a login page with tests"                           │
│                         ↓                                       │
│  BABYSITTER: Runs this loop automatically:                      │
│    1. AI writes code                                            │
│    2. Tests run → 60% pass                                      │
│    3. AI fixes failures                                         │
│    4. Tests run → 85% pass                                      │
│    5. AI fixes remaining issues                                 │
│    6. Tests run → 95% pass ✓ Target met!                       │
│                         ↓                                       │
│  YOU: Review and approve the final result                       │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Key Terms You'll See

| Term | What It Means | Example |
|------|---------------|---------|
| **Process** | A workflow definition | "Build feature with TDD" |
| **Run** | One execution of a process | Running the TDD workflow for your login page |
| **Task** | A single step in the process | "Write tests", "Run linter", "Check coverage" |
| **Quality Gate** | A check that must pass | Tests must be 90% passing |
| **Breakpoint** | A pause for human approval | "Review this code before I deploy it" (handled in chat or via web UI) |
| **Iteration** | One try-check-fix cycle | Attempt #3 to pass the tests |
| **Convergence** | Improving until target met | Going from 60% → 85% → 95% |

### Your First 5 Minutes

**What you'll do:**
1. Install Babysitter (1 command)
2. Run a simple workflow (1 command)
3. See it iterate until tests pass
4. Approve the result

**What you'll learn:**
- How the iteration loop works
- What a quality gate looks like
- How to approve at breakpoints

**What you'll see:**

```
/babysit build a calculator with add, subtract, multiply, divide using TDD

Creating run: calculator-20260125-143012
Process: TDD Quality Convergence
Target: 90% quality

Iteration 1: Quality 65/100 - Tests: 6/10 passing
  → AI fixing test failures...

Iteration 2: Quality 82/100 - Tests: 9/10 passing
  → AI improving code coverage...

Iteration 3: Quality 95/100 - Target met! ✅

Claude: The implementation is complete. Quality score: 95/100.
        Do you approve the final result?
        [Approve] [Request Changes]

You: [Approve]

Done! Your calculator module is ready.
```

**Note:** Breakpoints (approval prompts) are handled directly in the chat when using Claude Code. No external service needed!

**The main command:** `/babysit <your request>` handles everything automatically.

→ **[Start the Quick Start Tutorial](./getting-started/quickstart.md)**

---

## Documentation Sections

### Tutorials

Step-by-step learning guides that take you from beginner to expert.

| Tutorial | Level | Time | Description |
|----------|-------|------|-------------|
| [Getting Started](./getting-started/README.md) | Beginner | 20 min | Installation, setup, and your first run |
| [Build a REST API](./tutorials/beginner-rest-api.md) | Beginner | 45 min | Create a complete REST API with TDD |
| [Custom Process](./tutorials/intermediate-custom-process.md) | Intermediate | 60 min | Build your own process definition |
| [Multi-Phase Workflows](./tutorials/advanced-multi-phase.md) | Advanced | 90 min | Orchestrate complex multi-phase development |

---

### Features

Deep dives into Babysitter's core capabilities.

| Feature | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| [**Process Library**](./features/process-library.md) | **2,000+ pre-built processes** across 30+ categories - web, AI, DevOps, science, business, and more |
| [**Two-Loops Architecture**](./features/two-loops-architecture.md) | **Hybrid agentic systems** - symbolic orchestration + agentic harness, guardrails, and evidence-driven completion |
| [**Quality Convergence**](./features/quality-convergence.md) | **Five quality gate types** (tests, code quality, static analysis, security, performance) with 90-score patterns |
| [**Best Practices**](./features/best-practices.md) | **Four guardrail layers**, multi-gate validation, workflow design, and team collaboration patterns |
| [Breakpoints](./features/breakpoints.md) | Human-in-the-loop approval system for critical decisions |
| [Process Definitions](./features/process-definitions.md) | Customizable workflow templates and task orchestration |
| [Journal System](./features/journal-system.md) | Event-sourced audit trail and state reconstruction |
| [Run Resumption](./features/run-resumption.md) | Continue interrupted workflows from any point |
| [Parallel Execution](./features/parallel-execution.md) | Concurrent task execution for faster results |
| [VSCode Extension](./features/vscode-extension.md) | Monitor, dispatch, and interact with runs from VSCode |
| [Telegram Integration](./features/telegram-integration.md) | Mobile notifications and breakpoint approvals via Telegram |

> **Highlight:** The Process Library contains ready-to-use orchestration for virtually any development task - from React components to machine learning pipelines to business process modeling. [Explore the library →](./features/process-library.md)

> **Essential Reading:** Understanding the [Two-Loops Architecture](./features/two-loops-architecture.md) is key to designing reliable, bounded agentic workflows with proper guardrails and evidence-driven completion.

---

### Reference

Technical specifications and lookup resources.

| Reference | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| [CLI Reference](./reference/cli-reference.md) | Complete command-line interface documentation |
| [Configuration](./reference/configuration.md) | Environment variables and config file options |
| [Error Catalog](./reference/error-catalog.md) | All error codes with solutions |
| [Glossary](./reference/glossary.md) | Terminology and definitions |
| [FAQ](./reference/faq.md) | Frequently asked questions |
| [Troubleshooting](./reference/troubleshooting.md) | Common issues and resolutions |

---

## Learning Paths

Choose a path based on your role and goals.

### For Developers New to Babysitter

**Start here if this is your first time using Babysitter:**

1. **First:** Read the ["What is Babysitter?" section](#what-is-babysitter-start-here-if-youre-new) above - it takes 2 minutes and explains the core concepts
2. **Then:** Complete the [Getting Started](./getting-started/README.md) tutorial (20 min) - you'll install and run your first workflow
3. **Practice:** Build your first project with [REST API Tutorial](./tutorials/beginner-rest-api.md) (45 min)
4. **Reference:** Use the [Glossary](./reference/glossary.md) when you encounter unfamiliar terms (it has a quick-reference table at the top)

### For Experienced Developers

1. Quick setup via [Installation](./getting-started/installation.md)
2. Learn the [Five Quality Gate Types](./features/quality-convergence.md#the-five-quality-gate-categories) for robust validation
3. Study [Best Practices](./features/best-practices.md) for workflow design
4. Reference the [CLI](./reference/cli-reference.md) for automation

### For Technical Leads and Architects

1. **Start here:** Understand the [Two-Loops Architecture](./features/two-loops-architecture.md) philosophy
2. Study [Quality Convergence](./features/quality-convergence.md) for the 90-score convergence pattern
3. Review the [Four Guardrail Layers](./features/best-practices.md#the-four-guardrail-layers) for safety and control
4. Learn [Journal System](./features/journal-system.md) for audit compliance
5. Explore [Custom Process](./tutorials/intermediate-custom-process.md) for team workflows

### For Quality Engineers

1. **Essential:** Study the [Five Quality Gate Types](./features/quality-convergence.md#the-five-quality-gate-categories)
2. Review [The 90-Score Convergence Pattern](./features/quality-convergence.md#the-90-score-quality-convergence-pattern)
3. Understand [Evidence-Driven Completion](./features/two-loops-architecture.md#quality-gates-turning-agentic-work-into-reliable-outcomes)
4. Apply [Domain-Specific Targets](./features/best-practices.md) from Best Practices

### For DevOps and Automation Engineers

1. Install using [Quickstart](./getting-started/quickstart.md)
2. Master the [CLI Reference](./reference/cli-reference.md)
3. Configure via [Configuration Reference](./reference/configuration.md)
4. Automate with [Run Resumption](./features/run-resumption.md)

---

## What's New

### Version 0.0.123 (2026-01-25)

- Added numerous new skills and agents across various engineering domains
- Enhanced babysitter capabilities in chemical, civil, electrical, and environmental engineering
- New scientific discovery processes

### Recent Updates

| Version | Date | Highlights |
|---------|------|------------|
| 0.0.123 | 2026-01-25 | Engineering domain skills expansion |
| 0.0.122 | 2026-01-24 | Bug fixes and stability improvements |
| 0.0.121 | 2026-01-23 | Performance optimizations |

For the complete changelog, see the [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/a5c-ai/babysitter/releases).

---

## Search Tips

Finding what you need quickly:

- **Commands:** Search for the command name (e.g., `run:create`, `effects:get`)
- **Errors:** Search for the error code or key words from the message
- **Concepts:** Use terms from the [Glossary](./reference/glossary.md)
- **Tasks:** Search for what you want to do (e.g., "resume", "breakpoint", "quality")

---

## Getting Help

### Documentation Resources

- [FAQ](./reference/faq.md) - Common questions answered
- [Troubleshooting](./reference/troubleshooting.md) - Problem resolution guides
- [Error Catalog](./reference/error-catalog.md) - Error codes and fixes

### Community and Support

- **GitHub Issues:** [Report bugs or request features](https://github.com/a5c-ai/babysitter/issues)
- **Discussions:** [Community Q&A and discussions](https://github.com/a5c-ai/babysitter/discussions)

---

## Documentation Structure

This documentation follows the [Diataxis framework](https://diataxis.fr/):

| Category | Purpose | User Mode |
|----------|---------|-----------|
| **Tutorials** | Learning through guided projects | Study |
| **Features** | Understanding capabilities | Study |
| **Reference** | Technical lookup information | Work |
| **How-to Guides** | Task-focused problem solving | Work |

---

## Contributing

Found an issue with the documentation? Contributions are welcome.

1. Check existing [issues](https://github.com/a5c-ai/babysitter/issues) first
2. Submit corrections via pull request
3. Follow the documentation style guide

---

*Last updated: 2026-01-25*
