plugins/babysitter/skills/babysitter/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: babysitter
description: Orchestrate .a5c runs via @a5c-ai/babysitter-sdk CLI. Run iterations, get requested effects, perform effects, post results.
---

# babysitter

Orchestrate `.a5c/runs/<runId>/` through iterative execution. Use the SDK CLI to drive the orchestration loop.

make sure you have the latest version of the cli:

```bash
npm i -g @a5c-ai/babysitter @a5c-ai/babysitter-sdk @a5c-ai/babysitter-breakpoints
```

then use the CLI alias: CLI="babysitter"

**Alternatively, use the CLI alias:** `CLI="npx -y @a5c-ai/babysitter-sdk"`

---

## Core Iteration Workflow

The babysitter workflow has 4 steps:

1. **Run iteration** - Execute one orchestration step
2. **Get effects** - Check what tasks are requested
3. **Perform effects** - Execute the requested tasks
4. **Post results** - Tasks auto-record results to journal

### 1. Run Iteration

```bash
$CLI run:iterate .a5c/runs/<runId> --json --iteration <n>
```

**Output:**
```json
{
  "iteration": 1,
  "status": "executed|waiting|completed|failed|none",
  "action": "executed-tasks|waiting|none",
  "reason": "auto-runnable-tasks|breakpoint-waiting|terminal-state",
  "count": 3,
  "metadata": { "runId": "...", "processId": "..." }
}
```

**Status values:**
- `"executed"` - Tasks executed, continue looping
- `"waiting"` - Breakpoint/sleep, pause until released
- `"completed"` - Run finished successfully
- `"failed"` - Run failed with error
- `"none"` - No pending effects

### 2. Get Effects

```bash
$CLI task:list .a5c/runs/<runId> --pending --json
```

**Output:**
```json
{
  "tasks": [
    {
      "effectId": "effect-abc123",
      "kind": "node|agent|skill|breakpoint",
      "label": "auto",
      "status": "requested"
    }
  ]
}
```

### 3. Perform Effects

Run the effect externally (by you, your hook, or another worker). After execution, post the outcome into the run by calling `task:post`, which:
- Writes the committed result to `tasks/<effectId>/result.json`
- Appends an `EFFECT_RESOLVED` event to the journal
- Updates the state cache

if the effect is a breakpoint, you need to run the command:
```bash
npx @a5c-ai/babysitter-breakpoints breakpoint create --tag <tag> --question "<question>" --title "<title>" --run-id <runId> --file <file,format,language,label> --file <file,format,language,label> --file <file,format,language,label> ...
```

 to create the breakpoint and get the answer from the user. breakpoint are meant for human approval through the breakpoint tool. NEVER prompt directly and never release or approve a breakpoint yourself. put you may need to post the result of the breakpoint to the run by calling `task:post`

### 4. Results Posting


```bash
$CLI task:post .a5c/runs/<runId> <effectId> --status <ok|error> --json
```


Effects are executed **externally** (by you, your hook, or another worker). After execution, post the outcome into the run by calling `task:post`, which:
- Writes the committed result to `tasks/<effectId>/result.json`
- Appends an `EFFECT_RESOLVED` event to the journal
- Updates the state cache

---

### 5. repeat orchestration loop by calling run:iterate

## Task Kinds

| Kind | Description | Executor |
|------|-------------|----------|
| `node` | Node.js script | Local node process |
| `shell` | Shell script | Local shell process |
| `agent` | LLM agent | Agent runtime |
| `skill` | Claude Code skill | Skill system |
| `breakpoint` | Human approval | UI/CLI |
| `sleep` | Time gate | Scheduler |

### Agent Task Example

Important: Check which subagents and agents are actually available before assigning the name. if none, pass the generic agent name.

```javascript
export const agentTask = defineTask('agent-scorer', (args, taskCtx) => ({
  kind: 'agent',  // ← Use "agent" not "node"
  title: 'Agent scoring',
  agent: {
    name: 'quality-scorer',
    prompt: {
      role: 'QA engineer',
      task: 'Score results 0-100',
      context: { ...args },
      instructions: ['Review', 'Score', 'Recommend'],
      outputFormat: 'JSON'
    },
    outputSchema: {
      type: 'object',
      required: ['score']
    }
  },

  io: {
    inputJsonPath: `tasks/${taskCtx.effectId}/input.json`,
    outputJsonPath: `tasks/${taskCtx.effectId}/result.json`
  }
}));
```

### Skill Task Example

Important: Check which skills are actually available before assigning the name.

```javascript
export const skillTask = defineTask('analyzer-skill', (args, taskCtx) => ({
  kind: 'skill',  // ← Use "skill" not "node"
  title: 'Analyze codebase',

  skill: {
    name: 'codebase-analyzer',
    context: {
      scope: args.scope,
      depth: args.depth,
      analysisType: args.type,
      criteria: ['Code consistency', 'Naming conventions', 'Error handling'],
      instructions: [
        'Scan specified paths for code patterns',
        'Analyze consistency across the codebase',
        'Check naming conventions',
        'Review error handling patterns',
        'Generate structured analysis report'
      ]
    }
  },

  io: {
    inputJsonPath: `tasks/${taskCtx.effectId}/input.json`,
    outputJsonPath: `tasks/${taskCtx.effectId}/result.json`
  }
}));
```

---

## Packaged Processes

Skills and agents can package processes in `<skill-name>/process/`:

```
<skill-name>/
├── SKILL.md
└── process/
    ├── simple-build-and-test.js
    ├── build-test-with-agent-scoring.js
    ├── codebase-analysis-with-skill.js
    └── examples/
        └── *.json
```

**Usage:**
```bash
$CLI run:create \
  --process-id babysitter/build-test-with-agent-scoring \
  --entry <skill-dir>/process/build-test-with-agent-scoring.js#process \
  --inputs inputs.json
```

---

## Quick Commands Reference

**Create run:**
```bash
$CLI run:create --process-id <id> --entry <path>#<export> --inputs <path> --run-id <id>
```

**Check status:**
```bash
$CLI run:status <runId> --json
```

**View events:**
```bash
$CLI run:events <runId> --limit 20 --reverse
```

**List tasks:**
```bash
$CLI task:list <runId> --pending --json
```

**Post task result:**
```bash
$CLI task:post <runId> <effectId> --status <ok|error> --json
```

**Iterate:**
```bash
$CLI run:iterate <runId> --json --iteration <n>
```
---

## See Also
- `process/tdd-quality-convergence.js` - TDD quality convergence example - read this before creating the code for a run (create the run using the CLI, then use this process as a reference)
- `reference/ADVANCED_PATTERNS.md` - Agent/skill patterns, iterative convergence
- `packages/sdk/sdk.md` - SDK API reference

Commit message:

docs(babysitter): add requirements documentation for VSCode extension
Introduced a new requirements.md file detailing the features and user interface expectations for the Babysitter VSCode extension. This documentation outlines the integration with the 'o' command and framework, including run management, user interactions, and design principles for usability and aesthetics. Additionally, added a section on recovery from failures in the SKILL.md file to guide users in handling SDK issues.

plugins/babysitter/skills/babysitter/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: babysitter
description: Orchestrate .a5c runs via @a5c-ai/babysitter-sdk CLI. Run iterations, get requested effects, perform effects, post results.
---

# babysitter

Orchestrate `.a5c/runs/<runId>/` through iterative execution. Use the SDK CLI to drive the orchestration loop.

make sure you have the latest version of the cli:

```bash
npm i -g @a5c-ai/babysitter @a5c-ai/babysitter-sdk @a5c-ai/babysitter-breakpoints
```

then use the CLI alias: CLI="babysitter"

**Alternatively, use the CLI alias:** `CLI="npx -y @a5c-ai/babysitter-sdk"`

---

## Core Iteration Workflow

The babysitter workflow has 4 steps:

1. **Run iteration** - Execute one orchestration step
2. **Get effects** - Check what tasks are requested
3. **Perform effects** - Execute the requested tasks
4. **Post results** - Tasks auto-record results to journal

### 1. Run Iteration

```bash
$CLI run:iterate .a5c/runs/<runId> --json --iteration <n>
```

**Output:**
```json
{
  "iteration": 1,
  "status": "executed|waiting|completed|failed|none",
  "action": "executed-tasks|waiting|none",
  "reason": "auto-runnable-tasks|breakpoint-waiting|terminal-state",
  "count": 3,
  "metadata": { "runId": "...", "processId": "..." }
}
```

**Status values:**
- `"executed"` - Tasks executed, continue looping
- `"waiting"` - Breakpoint/sleep, pause until released
- `"completed"` - Run finished successfully
- `"failed"` - Run failed with error
- `"none"` - No pending effects

### 2. Get Effects

```bash
$CLI task:list .a5c/runs/<runId> --pending --json
```

**Output:**
```json
{
  "tasks": [
    {
      "effectId": "effect-abc123",
      "kind": "node|agent|skill|breakpoint",
      "label": "auto",
      "status": "requested"
    }
  ]
}
```

### 3. Perform Effects

Run the effect externally (by you, your hook, or another worker). After execution, post the outcome into the run by calling `task:post`, which:
- Writes the committed result to `tasks/<effectId>/result.json`
- Appends an `EFFECT_RESOLVED` event to the journal
- Updates the state cache

if the effect is a breakpoint, you need to run the command:
```bash
npx @a5c-ai/babysitter-breakpoints breakpoint create --tag <tag> --question "<question>" --title "<title>" --run-id <runId> --file <file,format,language,label> --file <file,format,language,label> --file <file,format,language,label> ...
```

 to create the breakpoint and get the answer from the user. breakpoint are meant for human approval through the breakpoint tool. NEVER prompt directly and never release or approve a breakpoint yourself. put you may need to post the result of the breakpoint to the run by calling `task:post`

### 4. Results Posting


```bash
$CLI task:post .a5c/runs/<runId> <effectId> --status <ok|error> --json
```


Effects are executed **externally** (by you, your hook, or another worker). After execution, post the outcome into the run by calling `task:post`, which:
- Writes the committed result to `tasks/<effectId>/result.json`
- Appends an `EFFECT_RESOLVED` event to the journal
- Updates the state cache

---

### 5. repeat orchestration loop by calling run:iterate

## Task Kinds

| Kind | Description | Executor |
|------|-------------|----------|
| `node` | Node.js script | Local node process |
| `shell` | Shell script | Local shell process |
| `agent` | LLM agent | Agent runtime |
| `skill` | Claude Code skill | Skill system |
| `breakpoint` | Human approval | UI/CLI |
| `sleep` | Time gate | Scheduler |

### Agent Task Example

Important: Check which subagents and agents are actually available before assigning the name. if none, pass the generic agent name.

```javascript
export const agentTask = defineTask('agent-scorer', (args, taskCtx) => ({
  kind: 'agent',  // ← Use "agent" not "node"
  title: 'Agent scoring',
  agent: {
    name: 'quality-scorer',
    prompt: {
      role: 'QA engineer',
      task: 'Score results 0-100',
      context: { ...args },
      instructions: ['Review', 'Score', 'Recommend'],
      outputFormat: 'JSON'
    },
    outputSchema: {
      type: 'object',
      required: ['score']
    }
  },

  io: {
    inputJsonPath: `tasks/${taskCtx.effectId}/input.json`,
    outputJsonPath: `tasks/${taskCtx.effectId}/result.json`
  }
}));
```

### Skill Task Example

Important: Check which skills are actually available before assigning the name.

```javascript
export const skillTask = defineTask('analyzer-skill', (args, taskCtx) => ({
  kind: 'skill',  // ← Use "skill" not "node"
  title: 'Analyze codebase',

  skill: {
    name: 'codebase-analyzer',
    context: {
      scope: args.scope,
      depth: args.depth,
      analysisType: args.type,
      criteria: ['Code consistency', 'Naming conventions', 'Error handling'],
      instructions: [
        'Scan specified paths for code patterns',
        'Analyze consistency across the codebase',
        'Check naming conventions',
        'Review error handling patterns',
        'Generate structured analysis report'
      ]
    }
  },

  io: {
    inputJsonPath: `tasks/${taskCtx.effectId}/input.json`,
    outputJsonPath: `tasks/${taskCtx.effectId}/result.json`
  }
}));
```

---

## Packaged Processes

Skills and agents can package processes in `<skill-name>/process/`:

```
<skill-name>/
├── SKILL.md
└── process/
    ├── simple-build-and-test.js
    ├── build-test-with-agent-scoring.js
    ├── codebase-analysis-with-skill.js
    └── examples/
        └── *.json
```

**Usage:**
```bash
$CLI run:create \
  --process-id babysitter/build-test-with-agent-scoring \
  --entry <skill-dir>/process/build-test-with-agent-scoring.js#process \
  --inputs inputs.json
```

---

## Quick Commands Reference

**Create run:**
```bash
$CLI run:create --process-id <id> --entry <path>#<export> --inputs <path> --run-id <id>
```

**Check status:**
```bash
$CLI run:status <runId> --json
```

**View events:**
```bash
$CLI run:events <runId> --limit 20 --reverse
```

**List tasks:**
```bash
$CLI task:list <runId> --pending --json
```

**Post task result:**
```bash
$CLI task:post <runId> <effectId> --status <ok|error> --json
```

**Iterate:**
```bash
$CLI run:iterate <runId> --json --iteration <n>
```
---

## Recovery from failure

If at any point the run fails due to SDK issues or corrupted state or journal. analyze the error and the journal events. recover the state to the state and journal to the last known good state and adapt and try to continue the run.

## See Also
- `process/tdd-quality-convergence.js` - TDD quality convergence example - read this before creating the code for a run (create the run using the CLI, then use this process as a reference)
- `reference/ADVANCED_PATTERNS.md` - Agent/skill patterns, iterative convergence
- `packages/sdk/sdk.md` - SDK API reference
