plugins/babysitter/NATIVE_HOOKS_INTEGRATION_2026-01-19.md, before:

# Native Hooks Integration - Implementation Complete

**Date:** 2026-01-19
**Todo:** #5 - Refactor to native hooks
**Status:** ✅ Completed

## Overview

Successfully integrated lifecycle hooks into the SDK runtime. Hooks are now **automatically triggered** at key lifecycle points without requiring manual calls from process files.

## What Changed

### 1. Runtime Hook Helpers

Created `packages/sdk/src/runtime/hooks/runtime.ts`:
- `callRuntimeHook()` - Safe hook caller with try-catch error handling
- `createRuntimeHookPayload()` - Helper for creating hook payloads
- Hooks failures are logged but do not break orchestration

### 2. SDK Runtime Integration

**In `createRun()` (packages/sdk/src/runtime/createRun.ts):**
- Automatically calls `on-run-start` hook after RUN_CREATED event
- Payload: `{ runId, processId, entry, inputs, timestamp }`

**In `orchestrateIteration()` (packages/sdk/src/runtime/orchestrateIteration.ts):**
- `on-iteration-start` - Called at start of each iteration
- `on-run-complete` - Called after RUN_COMPLETED event
- `on-run-fail` - Called after RUN_FAILED event
- `on-iteration-end` - Called in finally block

**In `nodeTaskRunner()` (packages/sdk/src/cli/nodeTaskRunner.ts):**
- `on-task-start` - Called before task execution
- `on-task-complete` - Called after task execution completes

### 3. TypeScript Fixes

- Added `logger?: ProcessLogger` to `CreateRunOptions` interface
- Fixed optional logger handling in hook intrinsic
- Fixed import path for HookResult type in types.ts
- Updated hook intrinsic to accept `Record<string, unknown>` payload

### 4. Path Resolution Fix

**Critical fix:** Corrected `projectRoot` calculation for hook dispatcher:
- runDir format: `/path/to/project/.a5c/runs/<runId>`
- Requires 3 levels up: `path.dirname(path.dirname(path.dirname(runDir)))`
- This ensures hooks are called from project root where `plugins/` directory exists

### 5. Documentation Updates

**Updated `packages/sdk/sdk.md`:**
- Added Section 8.4 "Lifecycle Hooks"
- Documented all automatic hook triggers
- Added hook discovery and example

**Updated `plugins/babysitter/skills/babysitter/reference/HOOKS.md`:**
- Updated to v2.1 "Runtime Integration"
- Added detailed SDK integration section
- Documented error handling and implementation details

**Updated `plugins/babysitter/skills/babysitter/SKILL.md`:**
- Added distinction between automatic vs manual hooks
- Clarified which hooks are SDK-triggered vs process-level

## Testing Results

**✅ Manual verification successful:**

Created test run: `test-hooks-success-1768845727`

Verified hook logging:
```
[2026-01-19T18:02:07Z] RUN_START
  Hook: on-run-start
  Run ID: test-hooks-success-1768845727
  Process: test/hooks-success
  Entry: ../../../../../AppData/Local/Temp/test-hooks-process.js#testHooksProcess
```

**Key findings:**
- TypeScript dispatcher works correctly
- Shell hook dispatcher executes successfully
- Logger hooks write to `.a5c/logs/hooks.log`
- Error handling prevents hook failures from breaking runs

## Files Modified

### SDK Runtime (6 files)
- `packages/sdk/src/runtime/hooks/runtime.ts` (NEW)
- `packages/sdk/src/runtime/createRun.ts`
- `packages/sdk/src/runtime/orchestrateIteration.ts`
- `packages/sdk/src/runtime/types.ts`
- `packages/sdk/src/runtime/intrinsics/hook.ts`
- `packages/sdk/src/cli/nodeTaskRunner.ts`

### Documentation (3 files)
- `packages/sdk/sdk.md`
- `plugins/babysitter/skills/babysitter/reference/HOOKS.md`
- `plugins/babysitter/skills/babysitter/SKILL.md`

## Impact

### Before (v2.0)
- ❌ Hooks had to be called manually from process files
- ❌ No automatic lifecycle tracking
- ❌ Inconsistent hook usage across processes

### After (v2.1)
- ✅ SDK automatically calls lifecycle hooks
- ✅ Every run triggers appropriate hooks
- ✅ Consistent hook execution across all processes
- ✅ Extensibility built into runtime
- ✅ No manual hook calls needed for SDK lifecycle events

## Backwards Compatibility

- ✅ Process files that manually call `ctx.hook()` continue to work
- ✅ All existing hook implementations work unchanged
- ✅ No breaking changes

## Next Steps

None - implementation complete. The hook system is now fully integrated into the SDK runtime.

## Success Criteria

- ✅ createRun() calls on-run-start hook
- ✅ orchestrateIteration() calls on-iteration-start/end hooks
- ✅ orchestrateIteration() calls on-run-complete/fail hooks
- ✅ Task execution calls on-task-start/complete hooks
- ✅ Hook failures don't break orchestration
- ✅ Documentation updated
- ✅ Tests passing (manual verification)
- ✅ Backwards compatibility maintained

Commit message:

refactor(babysitter): transition from task:run to task:post for task execution
Updated the Babysitter CLI to replace the deprecated task:run command with task:post, enhancing the orchestration model to be fully hook-driven. This change includes modifications across various files, including documentation updates, removal of legacy code, and adjustments to the CLI commands to ensure proper task result posting. The new model allows for external task execution and improved result handling.

plugins/babysitter/NATIVE_HOOKS_INTEGRATION_2026-01-19.md, after:

# Native Hooks Integration - Implementation Complete

**Date:** 2026-01-19
**Todo:** #5 - Refactor to native hooks
**Status:** ✅ Completed

## Overview

Successfully integrated lifecycle hooks into the SDK runtime. Hooks are now **automatically triggered** at key lifecycle points without requiring manual calls from process files.

## What Changed

### 1. Runtime Hook Helpers

Created `packages/sdk/src/runtime/hooks/runtime.ts`:
- `callRuntimeHook()` - Safe hook caller with try-catch error handling
- `createRuntimeHookPayload()` - Helper for creating hook payloads
- Hooks failures are logged but do not break orchestration

### 2. SDK Runtime Integration

**In `createRun()` (packages/sdk/src/runtime/createRun.ts):**
- Automatically calls `on-run-start` hook after RUN_CREATED event
- Payload: `{ runId, processId, entry, inputs, timestamp }`

**In `orchestrateIteration()` (packages/sdk/src/runtime/orchestrateIteration.ts):**
- `on-iteration-start` - Called at start of each iteration
- `on-run-complete` - Called after RUN_COMPLETED event
- `on-run-fail` - Called after RUN_FAILED event
- `on-iteration-end` - Called in finally block

**Task execution hooks:**
- The SDK no longer executes tasks in-process (the legacy CLI node runner was removed).
- If you want `on-task-start` / `on-task-complete`, emit them from your external executor (hook/worker) around the work it performs.

### 3. TypeScript Fixes

- Added `logger?: ProcessLogger` to `CreateRunOptions` interface
- Fixed optional logger handling in hook intrinsic
- Fixed import path for HookResult type in types.ts
- Updated hook intrinsic to accept `Record<string, unknown>` payload

### 4. Path Resolution Fix

**Critical fix:** Corrected `projectRoot` calculation for hook dispatcher:
- runDir format: `/path/to/project/.a5c/runs/<runId>`
- Requires 3 levels up: `path.dirname(path.dirname(path.dirname(runDir)))`
- This ensures hooks are called from project root where `plugins/` directory exists

### 5. Documentation Updates

**Updated `packages/sdk/sdk.md`:**
- Added Section 8.4 "Lifecycle Hooks"
- Documented all automatic hook triggers
- Added hook discovery and example

**Updated `plugins/babysitter/skills/babysitter/reference/HOOKS.md`:**
- Updated to v2.1 "Runtime Integration"
- Added detailed SDK integration section
- Documented error handling and implementation details

**Updated `plugins/babysitter/skills/babysitter/SKILL.md`:**
- Added distinction between automatic vs manual hooks
- Clarified which hooks are SDK-triggered vs process-level

## Testing Results

**✅ Manual verification successful:**

Created test run: `test-hooks-success-1768845727`

Verified hook logging:
```
[2026-01-19T18:02:07Z] RUN_START
  Hook: on-run-start
  Run ID: test-hooks-success-1768845727
  Process: test/hooks-success
  Entry: ../../../../../AppData/Local/Temp/test-hooks-process.js#testHooksProcess
```

**Key findings:**
- TypeScript dispatcher works correctly
- Shell hook dispatcher executes successfully
- Logger hooks write to `.a5c/logs/hooks.log`
- Error handling prevents hook failures from breaking runs

## Files Modified

### SDK Runtime (6 files)
- `packages/sdk/src/runtime/hooks/runtime.ts` (NEW)
- `packages/sdk/src/runtime/createRun.ts`
- `packages/sdk/src/runtime/orchestrateIteration.ts`
- `packages/sdk/src/runtime/types.ts`
- `packages/sdk/src/runtime/intrinsics/hook.ts`
- (removed) legacy CLI node runner module

### Documentation (3 files)
- `packages/sdk/sdk.md`
- `plugins/babysitter/skills/babysitter/reference/HOOKS.md`
- `plugins/babysitter/skills/babysitter/SKILL.md`

## Impact

### Before (v2.0)
- ❌ Hooks had to be called manually from process files
- ❌ No automatic lifecycle tracking
- ❌ Inconsistent hook usage across processes

### After (v2.1)
- ✅ SDK automatically calls lifecycle hooks
- ✅ Every run triggers appropriate hooks
- ✅ Consistent hook execution across all processes
- ✅ Extensibility built into runtime
- ✅ No manual hook calls needed for SDK lifecycle events

## Backwards Compatibility

- ✅ Process files that manually call `ctx.hook()` continue to work
- ✅ All existing hook implementations work unchanged
- ✅ No breaking changes

## Next Steps

None - implementation complete. The hook system is now fully integrated into the SDK runtime.

## Success Criteria

- ✅ createRun() calls on-run-start hook
- ✅ orchestrateIteration() calls on-iteration-start/end hooks
- ✅ orchestrateIteration() calls on-run-complete/fail hooks
- ✅ Task execution calls on-task-start/complete hooks
- ✅ Hook failures don't break orchestration
- ✅ Documentation updated
- ✅ Tests passing (manual verification)
- ✅ Backwards compatibility maintained
